+++
title = "Frankenstein"
date = 2021-08-23
description = "My thoughts on Frankenstein by Marry Shelly"
[taxonomies]
categories = ["Books"]
tags = ["horror", "shelly"]
[extra]
lang = "en"
toc = true
+++

> I read this book all the way back in grade 11, my perspectives have changed since then, might redo this:)

I’ve never liked horror, when I was little my sisters would watch horror movies on the family Television at the time I would go to great lengths to avoid these cringy Indian horror movies, they never fascinated me it’s always the same stuff the demon is dramatically about to kill the protagonist and all of a sudden the protagonist remembers a detail of a conversation he had with someone years ago and with the addition of some plot armour the protagonist prevails, how unpredictable. The element of surprise and horror never fascinated me I always saw it coming miles ahead, that is until I read Frankenstein, Frankenstein or The Modern Prometheus is a gothic, horror novel written by Mary Shelley a 17th-century female writer, Madame Shelley has been credited with the creator of the science fiction/ gothic horror genre itself, to call her an influential writer would be an understatement, she introduced SiFi to the world with her writing, Frankenstein is a story of a monster with no name, An unnamed monster who wishes nothing more than to be loved and cared about, the book is a tragedy and breaks the conventional ‘happily ever after’

Did Frankenstein scare me? did it keep me awake at night petrified, making me jump every time someone came into my room, No, because the beauty of the story isn’t petrifying horror but the consequences of playing god how one’s actions have consequences, The story isn’t what people believe it to be with evil monsters and dashing protagonist the story is heartbreakingly sad, The book offers numerous curious roads of philosophical investigation on the off chance that one wishes to ponder upon such things. For illustration, implications to religion and Beginning, conceivable reactions of utilizing science to "play God", and the relationship between maker and creation. All of these things make you intrigued yes, but it is the agonizingly human portion of this book that has continued so profoundly influenced so many along with myself. The book carries an important philosophical message to all people how shouldn’t judge people by the size of their shoes but by the shoes of their hearts, This Monster made out of corpses and rotting matter seeks to find love in this lonely world and finds hatred, with this hatred and anger in his heart he becomes evil, the book makes you ponder on things could have been so different. If people had just been a little less judgmental, a little less scared, and a little more understanding.

The story follows a young man by the name of Robert Walton making his way to the North Pole to make scientific discoveries, We are introduced to his sister Margaret Saville as Walton is writing a letter to her keeping her up to date with his journeys, On one peculiar occasion Walter and crew see a tall humanoid looking creature on a dog chariot, on the same day they find another man, a human in the brink of death fainted, The Fainted man gains conscientiousness and introduces himself as Victor Frankenstein, He becomes quite close with Walton and tells him his story. Victor begun out like every typical kid in Geneva, with his parents taking in a young lady named Elizabeth for him to marry when he gets older. You know, completely normal. At college, he decides to study natural philosophy and chemistry, along with chemistry's fiendish twin, alchemy. In approximately two years, he figures out how to bring a body made of human corpses pieces to life. A short time later, he's horrified by his own creation and is sick for months while his friend Henry Clerval caretakes him back to wellbeing.
Back in Geneva, Victor's younger brother, William, is killed. The Frankenstein family worker, Justine, is blamed for murdering him. Victor’s intuition magically tells him that his creature is the real executioner, but thinking that no one would accept the "my creature did it" excuse, Victor is afraid to even propose his hypothesis. Even when poor Justine is executed. Victor, in pain, goes on a trip to the Swiss Alps for a few much-needed R&R(Rest and Relaxation). All too conveniently, he runs into the monster, who confesses to the crime and tells Victor this story

When Frankenstein fled, he found himself alone and ugly. No one accepted him, but for one old blind man. He trusted that the blind man's family of cottagers would give him kindness, but even they drove him away. When he ran over William, he slaughtered the boy out of revenge. In brief, he's ticked off that his creator made him to be alone and hopeless, and so he asked would Frankenstein if you don't mind make him a female companion? After much influence, Victor agrees. He drops off Henry in Scotland whereas he goes to an island within the Orkneys to work. But, before he finishes, he destroys the second creature: he's afraid that the two will bring destruction to humankind instead of adoring each other harmlessly. The beast sees him do this and swears to take revenge. When Victor lands on a shore among Irish individuals, they charge him of killing Henry, who has been found dead. He's cleared but finds himself in bed with another long term sickness. Victor returns to Geneva and plans to wed Elizabeth, but he's a little stressed: the creature has sworn to be with him on his wedding night. Victor considers the beast is threatening him, but the night he and Elizabeth are married, the beast murders the bride instead. This causes Victor's father to pass away from pain,2 birds with 1 arrow for the monster, hell-bent on getting revenge victor goes to great lengths and chases the monster over all possible terrain until he is worn out and close to death. (In truth, we can't truly tell the two of them apart any longer but that the beast is taller and uglier. he finds Walton's ship, tells his story and kicks the bucket. Story Over? not exactly. Walton finds the beast crying over Victor's dead body. We're not sure if he's crying because he's sad or because, as he says, he has nothing to live for anymore—but either way, he heads off into the Cold to die. Alone. Definitely, it's not very a Hollywood ending.

Despite amazing the story, I found that the book definitely overstays its welcome specially around the monsters introduction part, Considering how Mary Shelley wrote this when she was 19 is mad, Great Book, a solid
4.7/5
